These debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates.
One of you is about to be elected the leader of the single-most powerful nation in the world, economically, financially, militarily, diplomatically, you name it.
I also understand that an administration is not one person, but an administration is dedicated citizens who are called by the president to serve the country, to serve a cause greater than self, and so I've thought about an administration of people who represent all America, but people who understand my compassionate and conservative philosophy.
So I think first and foremost our power ought to be wielded to in ways that form a more perfect union.
Well, I think they ought to look at us as a country that understands freedom where it doesn't matter who you are or how you're raised or where you're from, that you can succeed.
You know, in the last, or two decades ago it was routine for leaders of foreign countries to come over here and say you guys have got to do something about these horrendous deficits because it's causing tremendous problems for the rest of the world, and we were lectured to all the time.
I think, for example, if we're convinced that a Third World country that's got a lot of debt would reform itself, that the money wouldn't go into the hands of a few but would go to help people, I think it makes sense for us to use our wealth in that way, or to trade debt for valuable rain forest lands, makes that much sense, yes.
So we have to be guarded in our generosity.
We need to call upon Syria to release the three Israeli soldiers who have been captured.
But one thing I would say where diplomacy is concerned, Israel should feel absolutely secure about one thing.
The sanctions are being violated.
But it's important to have credibility and credibility is formed by being strong with your friends and resoluting your determination.
After all, a lot of the energy is produced from the Middle East, and so I appreciate what the administration is doing.
It's got to be a timetable that all parties can agree to, like the Palestinians and Israelis.
But the fact is that that's the situation that was left when I got there.
I know the governor's not necessarily saying that but, you know, all of these flights that have come in, all of them have been in accordance with the sanctions regime, I'm told, except for three where they notified, and they're trying to break out of the box, there's no question about it.
I don't think they should be allowed to.
Should the fall of Milosevic be seen as a triumph for U.S. military intervention?
Because freedom to go in that part of the world, and where there's a lot of work left to be done, however.
Remains to be seen, however, whether or not there's going to be a political settlement in Kosovo, and I certainly hope there is one.
He should be held accountable.
Now, have to be other factors involved for me to want to be involved.
But by itself, that to me can bring into play a fundamental American strategic interest because I think it's based on our values.
The mission was changed.
And so I don't think our troops ought to be used for what's called nation-building.
I think our troops ought to be used to fight and win war.
I think our troops ought to be used to help overthrow the dictator when it's in our best interests.
One of the criteria that I think is important in deciding when and if we should ever get involved around the world is whether or not our national security interest is involved, if we can really make the difference with military forces.
But there's got to be priorities, and Middle East is a priority for a lot of reasons, as is Europe and the Far East, our own hemisphere.
And those are my four top priorities should I be the president, not to say we won't be engaged nor work hard to get other nations to come together to prevent atrocity.
Now, just because we cannot be involved everywhere, and shouldn't be, doesn't mean that we should shy away from going in anywhere.
During the years between World War I and World War II, a great lesson was learned by our military leaders and the people of the United States.
You said in the Boston debate, Governor, on this issue of nation building, that the United States military is overextended now.
Our military is meant to fight and win war.
That's what it's meant to do.
And, you know, we can't be -- we can't allow ourselves to get overextended.
I think foreign aid needs to be used to encourage markets and reform.
I think a lot of times we just spend aid and say we feel better about it and it ends up being spent the wrong way, and there's some pretty egregious examples recently.
I'm not so sure the role of the United States is to go around the world and say this is the way it's got to be.
So I'm not exactly sure where the vice president is coming from, but I think one way for us to end up being viewed as the ugly American is for us to go around the world saying, we do it this way, so should you.
And I know it's been going on a long time.
Imagine what it -- what it is like for someone to be singled out unfairly, unjustly, and feel the unfair force of law simply because of race or ethnicity.
But if I am entrusted with the presidency, it will be the first Civil Rights Act of the 21st century.
Yeah, I can't imagine what it would be like to be singled out because of race and stopped and harassed.
I want to -- obviously in the egregious cases we need to enforce civil rights law, but we need to make sure that internal affairs decisions at the local level do their job and be given a chance to do their job.
I don't think they ought to be held guilty.
And as for singling people out because of race, you know, James Byrd was singled out because of his race in Texas.
And other Americans have been singled out because of their race or ethnicity.
I think they're different because they're based on prejudice and hatred, which gives rise to crimes that have not just a single victim, but they're intended to stigmatize and dehumanize a whole group of people.
They're going to be put to death.
It's going to be hard to punish them any worse after they get put to death.
Arab-Americans are racially profiled in what is called secret evidence.
People are stopped, and we have to do something about that.
My friend, Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, is pushing a law to make sure that Arab-Americans are treated with respect.
And to make sure our society is as hopeful as it possibly can be, every single child in America must be educated.
Is anybody being profiled?
Is anybody being discriminated against?
GORE: I'm talking about the one that was proposed to deal --
They were prosecuted under the murder laws, were they not, in Texas?
I may have been misled by all the news reports about this matter, because the law that was proposed in Texas that had the support of the Byrd family and a whole lot of people in Texas did, in fact, die in committee.
There may be some other statute that was already on the books, but certainly the advocates of the hate crimes law felt that a tough new law was needed.
There is pending now in the Congress a national hate crimes law because of James Byrd, because of Matthew Shepard, who was crucified on a split rail fence by bigots, and because of others.
And we're going to make sure people get punished for the crime.
I've been a person that had been called a uniter, not a divider, because I accept other people's points of view.
What it says is that gays and lesbians can't be fired from their job because they're gay or lesbian.
Now, I wonder if the -- it's been blocked by the opponents in the majority in the Congress.
Well, it would be if they're given special protective status.
But that having been said, I believe that -- well, first of all, let me say that the governor and I agree on some things where this subject is concerned.
I think that homeowners have to be respected and their right to have a gun if they wish to.
I think we should toughen the enforcement of gun laws so that the ones that are already on the books can be enforced much more effectively.
Some of the restrictions that have been placed by the Congress in the last couple of years.
If you're going to sell a gun illegally, you need to be arrested.
There was a recent investigation of the number in Texas who got -- who were given concealed weapons permits in spite of the fact that they had records.
I do think that sensible gun safety measures are warranted now.
Look, this is the year -- this is in the aftermath of Columbine, and Paducah, and all the places in our country where the nation has been shocked by these weapons in the hands of the wrong people.
So there's a -- this is a society that -- of ours that's got to do a better job of teaching children right from wrong.
Love your neighbor like you would like to be loved yourself.
She's worked on it longer than I have.
And if I'm elected president, I will do something about that.
We say, if you get caught carrying a gun, you're automatically detained.
If laws need to be strengthened, like instant background checks, that's important.
I have been in charge of this reinventing government streamlining project that's reduced the size of government by more than 300,000 people in the last several years.
And as for why it happened, I'm no expert on the Texas procedures, but what my friends there tell me is that the governor opposed a measure put forward by Democrats in the legislature to expand the number of children that would be covered.
He declared the need for a new tax cut for the oil companies in Texas an emergency need, and so the money was taken away from the CHIP program.
I think that in this 21st century we will soon see the consequences of what's called global warming.
I think we ought to have federal liability protection, depending upon whether or not standards have been met.
Perhaps some of that land needs to be set aside.
Sure, absolutely, so long as they're based upon science and they're reasonable.
China and India were exempted from that treaty.
Well, that vote wasn't exactly -- a lot of the supporters of the Kyoto Treaty actually ended up voting for that because the way it was worded.
In my faith tradition, it is -- it's written in the book of Matthew, "Where your heart is, there is your treasure also." And I believe that -- that we ought to recognize the value to our children and grandchildren of taking steps that preserve the environment in a way that's good for them.
I -- of course there's a lot -- look, global warming needs to be taken very seriously, and I take it seriously.
I've been known to mangle a syllable or two myself, you know, if you know what I mean.
But I will promise you this with all the confidence in my heart and in the world, that I will do my best if I'm elected president, I'll work my heart out to get the big things right for the American people.
There's been too much finger pointing and too much name calling in Washington, D.C. I would like to unite this country to get an agenda done that will speak to the hopes and aspirations of the future.
No child should be left behind in America.
It is time to have a new commander in chief who will rebuild the military, pay our men and women more, make sure they're housed better and have a focused mission for our military.
This issue has been too long on the table because it's been a political issue.
