As Jim Lehrer told you before the first one, these debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates.
The candidate is allowed two minutes to answer.
There is also a buzzer, if it is needed.
Police officers are being cut from the streets of America because the president decided to cut the COPS program.
three-quarters of Al Qaida leaders have been brought to justice -- but to make sure that countries that harbor terrorists are held to account.
My opponent just this weekend talked about how terrorism could be reduced to a nuisance, comparing it to prostitution, illegal gambling.
Six months after he said Osama bin Laden must be caught dead or alive, this president was asked, "Where is Osama bin Laden? " He said, "I don't know.
Bob, we relied upon a company out of England to provide about half of the flu vaccines for the United States citizen, and it turned out that the vaccine they were producing was contaminated.
And it's gotten worse under President Bush over the course of the last years.
It's called bait and switch.
My question is, how can you or any president, whoever is elected next time, keep that pledge without running this country deeper into debt and passing on more of the bills that we're running up to our children?
I'll tell you exactly how I can do it: by reinstating what President Bush took away, which is called pay as you go.
He's proposed $2.
Mr. President, what do you say to someone in this country who has lost his job to someone overseas who's being paid a fraction of what that job paid here in the United States?
No, education is how to help the person who's lost a job.
The jobs that are being created in Arizona right now are paying about $13,700 less than the jobs that we're losing.
The fact is that he's cut job-training money. $1 billion was cut.
They were told: Don't even bother;
But I'm concerned that that will get overturned.
And if it gets overturned, then we'll end up with marriage being defined by courts, and I don't think that's in our nation's interests.
And I think if you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter, who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was, she's being who she was born as.
But we know from the people he's tried to appoint to the court he wants to.
I believe the ideal world is one in which every child is protected in law and welcomed to life.
The last debate, my opponent said his wife was involved with those programs.
Most health-care costs are covered by third parties.
Medicare is paid for by the American taxpayer.
He introduced some 300 bills and he's passed five.
It's estimated that 8 million people will go from private insurance to government insurance.
Our health-care system is the envy of the world because we believe in making sure that the decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by officials in the nation's capital.
But the critics are saying that's going to mean finding $1 trillion over the next 10 years to continue paying benefits as those accounts are being set up.
gets elected, your check will be taken away.
And if we don't act today, the problem will be valued in the trillions.
He's already got $3 trillion, according to The Washington Post, of expenses that he's put on the line from his convention and the promises of this campaign, none of which are paid for.
He's broken the pay-as-you-go rules.
And then we had a recession and we got attacked, which cost us 1 million jobs.
I'm told that at least 8,000 people cross our borders illegally every day.
Yet the minimum wage has been stuck at, what, $5.
One percent of America got $89 billion last year in a tax cut, but people working hard, playing by the rules, trying to take care of their kids, family values, that we're supposed to value so much in America -- I'm tired of politicians who talk about family values and don't value families.
And therefore just kids were being shuffled through the school.
And guess who would get shuffled through?
I'm not going to appoint a judge to the Court who's going to undo a constitutional right, whether it's the First Amendment, or the Fifth Amendment, or some other right that's given under our courts today -- under the Constitution.
He'll tell you he's raised the money, and he has.
Absolutely we've got to make sure they get educated.
Absolutely we've got to make sure they get educated.
Is there any relief that could be offered to these brave Americans and their families?
Our military is overextended.
One way or the other, they're wrapped up in it.
I remember going on an airplane in Bangor, Maine, to say thanks to the reservists and Guard that were headed overseas from Tennessee and North Carolina, Georgia.
If you look at what's happened -- we've made progress, I want to say that at the same time.
But we ought to have an aggressive effort to make sure people are educated, to make sure when they get out of high school there's Pell Grants available for them, which is what we've done.
You were asked before the invasion, or after the invasion, of Iraq if you'd checked with your dad.
But when I make decisions, I stand on principle, and the principles are derived from who I am.
I was taught -- I went to a church school and I was taught that the two greatest commandments are: Love the Lord, your God, with all your mind, your body and your soul, and love your neighbor as yourself.
But if you were elected president, or whoever is elected president, will you set a priority in trying to bring the nation back together?
I've never seen members of a party locked out of meetings the way they're locked out today.
And I'm blessed, as I think the president is blessed, as I said last time.
My fellow Americans, as you heard from Bob Schieffer a moment ago, America is being tested by division.
